Key West Notes
--------------

General:
--------

Wear good walking shoes!  Pretty much everything you want to do is within walking
distance.  Parking is a bitch, so cars are more of a liability than a help.  You can
rent bikes, scooters, or electric cars, be we never found we needed them.  

Everything centers around Duval St., which runs from Southernmost Point on the SE end to 
Mallory Square on the NE end, and is a little over a mile long.  Everything is within a 
couple of blocks of it, or along the North Shore between Mallory Square and the Naval 
Station just to the East.  That means that the *absolute furthest* you could walk would 
be from Southernmost Point to the Half Shell Raw Bar, which is 1.4 mi. 

The Mallory Square end of Duval St. is called "Lower Duval", even though it's North.
That's the most Bourbon St.-like area.  Lots of bars and restaurants, and people
get really drunk as you approach midnight. Things calm down a bit as you get away from
there, so you can kind of dial your level of excitement.    

Another general note... they definitely have an "island attitude" in Key West.  They
will frequently make mistakes with your order, tickets, bill, etc, but they always
give you either a big discount, free stuff, or both to make up for it, so I was OK
with this.  

Tourist sites (that we visited):
--------------------------------

(note:  the copious tourist booths can get you package deals on multiple sites. We
didn't do this, but it can save a few dollars). 

Mallory Square -  Northwest end of Duval St. This is where everyone goes to watch the 
sunset.  There are also lots of street entertainers of all stripes.  The highlight is 
"Crazy Cat Man", who sets up near the Southwest end of the square.  He's got a bunch 
of trained cats.  He speaks in a barely intelligible French accent, and behaves like
a total lunatic. This may all be an act, but then again I don't think a completely 
sane person can possibly train a cat.  

Hemingway House - This is a must see.  Hemingway lived here during the 1930s, a period
when he did 2/3 of his writing.  He was married to his second wife, and working on his
third during this time.  The house is beautiful (a gift from his wife's rich family), 
and still occupied by the many-toed descendants of the six-toed cat Hemingway was given 
as a gift.  It's across the street from the lighthouse, and rumor has it this would
help Hemingway find it after a night of hard drinking.  We had a very good tour guide
who was quite passionate about his subject.  

Truman "Little White House" -  We really enjoyed this, but maybe it's not for everyone.
Truman came here to recover from the stress of little things like dropping the A-bomb, 
starting the UN, instituting the Marshall Plan, etc.  It's also been used for important
State purposes before and after.  What's cool is that when Truman left, they put all his
furniture into storage, so most of the stuff is original and it's a cool snapshot into 
1950 (e.g. count the ashtrays!)  

Conch Train Tour - We got this for free after the Truman House screwed up our tickets 
(see my comment above), and it was pretty cool.  It would have been nice to have done
it on the first day because it really gives you a good feeling for the layout, and you
learn a lot about the history of the island.  

Zachary Taylor State Park - If you just want to get away and relax at the beach, this 
is the place (there's surprisingly little beach at Key West, and all the sand is shipped 
in).  We unfortunately went there on a rainy day, but we could see it would be awesome 
on a nice day.  There's a beach, a bunch of picnic areas under trees for shade, a little 
cafe where you can get burgers and drinks.  There's also an old fort which is kind of 
cool to explore.  It's a bit of a walk through kind of a sketchy area, and you'll be 
certain you're lost by the time you get there. 

Butterfly Conservatory - We thought it was extremely cool and very relaxing.  Maybe
it's your thing, maybe it isn't.  

Lighthouse - Kind of cool.  Nice to climb the tower for the view.  Not a must see.   

Aquarium - OK, but you've seen better.

Eating, Drinking, and Music:
----------------------------

Key West is solid with bars and restaurants, so we barely scratched the surface.  Pretty
much everyplace has live music.  It's usually a guy with a guitar, with a spectrum of
quality, but several have very good bands, some from out of town.  

Here are a few places we tried, in no particular order:

Sloppy Joe's:  This is the most iconic place, right in Lower Duval.  Advertised as 
where Hemingway did most of his drinking, but I think by the time it moved to its current
location, he was mostly off in Spain banging Martha Gellhorn.  We didn't try the food, 
but they had a great band.  The original Sloppy Joe's is now Captain Tony's, a short 
distance away.  Dollar signs and bras hanging from the bras and ceiling.  Rumored to 
have good bands, but we were there too early.  

Lazy Gecko:  Small bar right next to Sloppy Joe's.  One guide book called it
"The only bar in lower Duval where locals go".  We were there, and met a very
drunk local, so... yup.  

Green Parrot:  Near where we stayed, but about as far from "the action" as you can
get in Old Town.  Oldest bar in Key West.  Hemingway drank here when he 
was too drunk to make it to and from Sloppy Joe's.  I don't think they have food, 
and it's very divy, but known for great bands.  Get there at least a half hour 
before the music if you want to sit.   We saw a popular local band called
Patrick and the Swayzees, who do 50s/rockabilly.  They play several places around 
town and are definitely worth checking out.

Blue Heaven:  Not far from Green Parrot and Hemingway's house.  This is "the place" for
breakfast.  Unless you get there right when they open, you'll wait an hour on the 
weekend, but there's a bar, it's nice to sit outside, and of course there's live
music, which was extremely good the day we were there.  

Two Friends:  Another good place for breakfast, and dinner, with no wait. In the
Mallory Square area.  Our dinner came before our appetizer, so they knocked 10%
of the bill, then it took even longer, so they gave us free pie (see "island attitude"
comment above).  

Southernmost Beach Cafe:  At the complete opposite end of Duval St. from Mallory
Square.  There's a little public beach and a restaurant.  Great ambience and view.
We just had drinks and appetizers, so I can't comment on the food.  Appetizers were
late (not sure the guy who took our order actually worked there), so they were
free ("island attitude" again).  

Jimmy Buffet's Margaritaville:  Yeah, yeah, I know it's cliché, but the food is 
pretty good and the portions are huge.  Their specialty dish is a "blackened hot dog",
which sounds totally disgusting, but is actually delicious.  

A&B Lobster House:  At the higher end of the restaurant scale.  Good food and a great
view.  

Conch Republic:  Near A&B.  Also good.

Blackfin Bistro:  Classy little restaurant sort of in the middle of Duval St.  Notable 
for good food, getting our order correct, and not looking like Joe's Crab Shack.  
Consider this if you need a "grown up night".  

We went to a bunch of other places, but they all kind of blend together in my mind at
this point.  I don't think you can really go too wrong.  I don't recall any bad food
anywhere we tried.  Food prices are sort of downtown Chicago.  Drinks were cheaper than
I expected.   

Supplies:
----------

The most reasonably priced grocery store in the Old Town area is "Fausto's Food Palace",
on Fleming St, just off of Duval.  

If you really want to stock up, and have transportation, there's a Winn Dixie on
Highway 1, just a few miles away.  


 